# PortfolioProject-MYSQL
This data exploration project is done on MYSQL and the Dataset used (https://ourworldindata.org/covid-deaths) can be found here.

Skills used in this Portfolio Project:
CTE(Common Tables Expression)-The CTE query starts with a “With” and is followed by the Expression Name. We will be using this expression name in our select query to display the result of our CTE Query and be writing our CTE query definition.

Temp Tables(Temporary Tables)- The temporary tables are session-specific tables that are created within the session. When the session closes, the table is dropped by itself. A temporary table exists within a session only; therefore, a table created by one session is not visible to another session.

Windows Functions-Window functions operate on a set of rows and return a single aggregated value for each row. The term Window describes the set of rows in the database on which the function will operate.
We define the Window (set of rows on which functions operates) using an OVER() clause.

Aggregate Functions- aggregate functions that can be used to perform different types of calculations on a set of values, and return a single value that summarized the input data set. These SQL Server aggregate functions include AVG(), COUNT(), SUM(), MIN() and MAX().

Creating Views- The database views are the virtual tables that are generated by the query output. The views are considered as an object, and it can be queried using the SELECT statement. The View does not store the physical data on the database. When we run a SELECT statement on a database view, it executes the query and populates the data from the underlying tables used to create a view.

Converting Data Types- From varchar to int for data exploration
